Matthew chapter 20, Jesus is moving closer to Jerusalem, closer to his cross.
And as he heads towards the cross, he teaches his disciples the values of God's kingdom and how God manifests God's authority and lordship.
We're listening to Baudido Bay Methodist Church's podcast on the Gospel of Matthew.
Today is Wednesday, February 25.
And today we're reading Matthew chapter 20.
Chapter 20 picks up where chapter 19 of Matthew ends.
When Jesus said to his disciples, but many who are first will be last and the last shall be first.
God overturns the values and assumptions of this world.
For example, the world says, you should only get what you earn.
You should receive what you deserve.
Blessed are those who are first.
And in today's reading, Jesus tells a parable
of a vineyard owner who goes out early in the morning and hires laborers to work as vineyard.
He and the laborers agree to a fair and just wage for the day's work, one denarius.
The owner then goes back to where those who want to be laborers for the day hang out and are waiting for work and the owner sees people waiting and he hires more, he goes back at nine o'clock at noon at three o'clock and then at five p.m.
And he keeps hiring people who are waiting for work.
Then at sundown, he pays the laborers, starting with those who were hired last.
And he gives those who just worked one hour.
He gives them the same wage that he gives to those who were hired, the first thing in the morning.
That is, he pays each of the workers, one denarius.
the ones hired last just as much as he the ones hired first and as you can expect the first ones complain but the vineyard owner he did not cheat them he says to the first ones friends I'm doing you know wrong did you not agree with me for a denarius take what belongs to you and go I choose to give to the last the same as I give to you
Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me?
Or are you envious because I am generous?
Remember, the owner paid the laborers who were hired first exactly what they agreed upon.
He did not cheat them at Daenerys.
That's what it was the average wage, the typical wage.
He gave them what they asked for.
A sermon by Barbara Brown Taylor has helped me understand this parable.
She says that a lot depends on where you see yourself in this parable.
If we view ourselves as those who got hired first in the morning, then we will become envious and begrudge the owner for being generous.
But what if we're not the ones who were hired first?
But we were instead the ones hired last.
See, then we will be overwhelmingly grateful
and view the owner as being gracious and kind.
This parable represents how God relates to us.
And Barbara Brown Teller asks the question, what if from God's perspective, we are not the ones who showed up first, but we're those who came last to the vineyard.
I think of people who have become followers of Christ while they're in prison.
They know they've messed up.
They know they sinned earlier and life and did some awful things.
And then they come to faith in Christ later in life.
And through this parable, Jesus assures them.
He assures us that they too are God's beloved children and now members of the body of Christ.
And maybe from God's perspective, we all are those who came late to work in the vineyard.
And we all are recipients of God's amazing generosity and grace.
So the last will be first and the first will be last.
Another story in Matthew 20 is the story of James and John's mother asking Jesus for her sons to have positions of prominence when Jesus enters his kingdom.
One sitting at his right, one sitting at his left.
And Jesus responds, he responds by saying,
You don't have a clue what you're asking.
Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink?
See, Jesus is going to the cross.
He's about to suffer and die to redeem humanity.
And remember, Jesus is King.
He's King of King and Lord of Lords, but he's not a Lord, a ruler, a King who lords it over others, who bullies others.
He is a suffering servant who came to give his life for others.
And when Jesus enters into his glory on the cross, the ones on his left and on his right are two criminals who are crucified with him.
True greatness does not come from lording it over others.
True greatness comes from having a servant heart.
After talking with James and John and their mother and after hearing the other disciples grumble
about what James and John asked.
Jesus calls his disciples together and he says to them, he says, you know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them and their great men exercise authority over them it shall not be so among you but whoever would be great among you must be your servant and whoever would be first among you must be your slave even as the son of man came not to be served but to serve
and to give his life as a ransom for many.
Thank you for listening.
My name is Scott Home and this podcast is produced by Kenny Stewart.